and this video,
we're going to speak about the expand and collapsed feature in pivot tables,
so this feature allows you to drill down on specific rows and columns,
or you can also summarize at a high level.
So next to each item label,
you will see here a plus and minus button,
and this allows you to expand or collapse that particular label here,
says Eakins.
Here I'm expanding and collapsing product one.
And that means that I'm either showing or hiding the breakdown off product one by sales
person.
As you can see here on a row section,
we've got the product name,
and then we get the sales person under.
And that means that the product name will be broken down by sales person.
If you need to expand or collapse,
not only one item,
so I'm currently expanding and collapsing.
Product one.
Just product.
One.
I can also expand and collapsed the entire field.
That means the entire product name fields,
all the products product on product tube and product.
Three.
We can do that by right clicking and then expanding collapse.
We have here also an expanding collapse option,
and this will expand and collapse just this particular item in the field.
But then we have expand entire field and collapse entire fields,
so collapse entire field will collapse all the products,
the whole product name,
field and then expand.
Entire fueled will expand all the products as well.
Another way to do it is to select.
It's the item on your fields year.
Go to the analyzed tab on the ribbon and then under the active field group here you will
see claps,
field and then expand field,
and that expands and collapses the entire field.
Now what happens if you try to expand the bottom?
Most field in the hierarchy here says,
You can see here on the roads section.
We've got the product name and then the product name gets broken down by sales person.
But there is nothing that the sales person gets broken down by or Goetz's drilled into
bicycles.
Here it's the bottle,
most field of our hierarchy.
So what happens if we try to expand that?
Let's see,
Let's right click on any item on our sales person.
So any sales person here and then expanding collapse press expand and basically what you
get here is a dialog box that asks you which field you would like to expand the sales
person with.
As it is here,
we can expend it by any of these fields.
So let's choose the quarter,
for example,
On press.
Okay,
as you can see,
are now each salesperson gets expanded by quarter,
and that means that each sales person gets broken down by quarter.
We can also expand the quarter further,
for example,
by month.
So if we right click here on any of the quarters and then expanding collapse,
expand that and we can expend that by sales month,
for example,
impress.
Okay.
As you can see her,
each quarter is being expanded by month.
And because you're not all the months air appearing because not all the months,
half sales.
So basically only the months that belonged to this quarter that do have sales are appearing
basically.
And and this is also for that particular sex person says you can see here we get each
quarter broken down by month.
You can also do the same here on the column section.
So even if we move the quarter here to the column section,
you can see here that we've got a drill down here year.
You can drill down into the year by quarter,
as you can see here,
using this expand and collapse button.
And then you can also drill down the quarter by month as well as you can see here,
you can drill down the quarter by month.
You can also right click and expanding collapsed the entire field as we showed previously.
We can also collapse the whole pivot table here so we can actually click on the year and
then collapsed field,
so that basically collapses.
Older feels under it.
You can also collapse on Lee the quarter so that you would still have the year broken down
by the quarter so you can actually shape your pivot table whichever way you like.
So you can basically collapse.
The pivot table here collapse entire field so that you get a high level view that you can
send to the upper management or the executives,
for example,
who don't care much about the details they just wanted.
See the big picture,
and then you can also drill down into individual items so that you can do more analysis on
your data or send that to the particular departments who would basically be interested in
the details.
One more thing I'd like to show you is how you can hide or show the expanding collapse
buttons to these plus on minus buttons.
You can do that through going to the anal I stabbed here on the ribbon and then here you've
got a plus and minus buttons button here.
So if you press on that,
you can tuggle these plus and minus buttons on or off so that you can show on hide them.
And by the way,
if they are hidden,
you can still expand and collapse.
Using the buttons year on the active field area,
expand field or collapse field here is you can see or by right clicking and doing that
through the expand collapse options.
So that's it,
guys,
for the expanding collapsed feature on pivot tables,
Thank you very much for watching and